Dear Sir,

I am a 3rd-year B.Tech undergraduate pursuing Dual Degree in Electronics
and Communication Engineering at National Institute of Technology
Hamirpur, Himachal Pradesh, India.

I aspire to contribute to the open-source community with my technical
writing skills that I have acquired by contributing to various projects.
I have hands-on experience of handling WordPress websites and am
currently the technical writing head of the leading page of the largest
student community I AM AN NITIAN.

During my sophomore year, I undertook a remote internship activity at
MATLAB Helper as a MATLAB Developer Intern for four and a half months
from 27th April 2020 to 9th September 2020. My internship activity
included working in the field of MATLAB & promotional content creation.
I have contributed to the organization with my blogs on GUIDE, SIR
Modelling and webinar on Image Processing using Fuzzy Logic Toolbox. I
have also worked on the revision of the online course of Neural Network.
During this internship, I have used tools like MATLAB, Slack, Zoom,
Trello, Canva, etc.

Here I am attaching links to my writing work

Blog: Creating a GUI in MATLAB
<https://matlabhelper.com/blog/matlab/creating-a-gui-in-matlab/>

Blog: Image Processing Using Fuzzy Logic Toolbox
<https://matlabhelper.com/blog/matlab/image-processing-using-fuzzy-logic-toolbox/>

Blog: COVID-19 SIR Modelling for Andhra Pradesh, India
<https://matlabhelper.com/blog/matlab/covid-19-sir-modelling-for-andhra-pradesh-india/>

Blog: COVID-19 SIR Modelling for West Bengal, India
<https://matlabhelper.com/blog/matlab/covid-19-sir-modelling-for-west-bengal-india/>

Medium <https://mahoviyanikita.medium.com/>

Website <https://iamannitian.com/>

Open Source Contribution:

How do object behaviours and attributes differ PR\#1326 Defining the
correct usage of data types in Java PR\#1340 Updated the documentation
to reflect the current state of implementation of Adorsys PR\#1204 Code
for saying hello in different languages PR\#5 Updated the README file of
scorelab/GSoC PR\#116 Updated the README file of the squiral library
PR\#4

I would be honoured if I get an opportunity to work on the documentation
project which will be a pillar for future developers. The documentation
will provide an understanding of the entire landscape of solutions.

This is the link to my resume:
<https://drive.google.com/file/d/1M_TZDid8tkpLX9KsIs26EEnZq9SVZHIA/view?usp=sharing>

Waiting in anticipation.

Yours sincerely

Nikita Mahoviya 3rd Year B.Tech Undergraduate Department of Electronics
and Communication Engineering National Institute of Technology Hamirpur
(H.P.)