Name: Hitesh Sofat

E-mail id: sofathitesh@gmail.com

IRC username: sofat

Phone Number: +91 977 917 3996

Brief Background

I am a final year graduate in Information Technology at Guru Nanak Dev
Engineering College, Ludhiana. I have a keen interest in PHP, Shell
Script, JavaScript etc. I do freelancing along with my college studies.
I have three years of experience in PHP development viz. WordPress,
CodeIgniter etc. whereas Django and MediaWiki are relatively newer but
have been added up in the stack of my experience. I have been in touch
with Open Source from about a year and ever since I have been immersed
in this ocean since we get both exposure and knowledge.

Project Title: Synchronize Wiki with Docbook

Brief Summary

The project will be a web application where user can edit or retrieve
the data from documents which are written in XML and Docbook. An
application will be made which will help users to easily edit and create
the docs in docbook using online web interface. The standards of all
docs will also be improved and made useful in future. I want to make all
documents more productive and useful for the community. I also want to
make MediaWiki extension or WordPress plugin because I am comfortable
with both CMSs. My final decision depends upon the opinion of the
community.

Detailed Project Description:

Quick review of present state of project

After checking all the present documents I have come to the conclusion
that, these documents are in different formats so we need to provide the
proper format to all documents, so in this case we use Docbook. The
documents are very old so we will need to update these documents and add
some new information. There are many articles and tutorials which are
written in different formats such as LaTeX, HTML, tr, txt making it even
difficult to manage. So we need to provide the proper format.

Project Partitioning:

Front End (web Interface) Back End (Docbook and Directory Queue) Front
End

Front End is one of the most important parts of project which will make
the Docbook document accessible and easy to work with. If project
interface is effective, it would be easier for the users to understand
the actual information of website. They would be able to use the feature
of simple yet elegant interface. They would be able to get the proper
layout of document easily.

Home Page:-

Quick Links for Documents Searching of Documents Download Documents View
all Documents View All Documents:-

Document would be categorized according to the Category of documents.
This would contain the different types of documents. So we will select
the particular document according to the category like there will be
some tutorial documents, some articles and some commands and much more.
I would like to categorize these documents into proper structure so that
user will easily get the exact document.

Admin Interface:-

I think many users will use this service and make changes in the
documents so in this case we need some security on admin side. When user
makes the changes then all changes will be stored in patch file or pull
request will be sent for Admin Review. So when the changes made by users
are checked and approved, a script will be run and patch or pull request
will merge the changes with main document and automatically all the
changes will easily be applied to the original documents. I want to make
admin interface for this work in which admin will be able to see the all
differences of original doc and edited doc and then he can accept/reject
the changes considering security and standards.

Back end:-

In backend of this project, I will use Directory Queue strategy. With
the help of this I will eliminate the use of MySQL and handle the all
work related with docs. In backend of this project, I will use patch
files or pull request and XML for storing the content of new documents
which are added by user. I will also use patch files or pull request for
storing the changes of documents. Like when user edits the document all
changes will be stored in patch files or pull request for review. And
when admin reviews these changes then the changes will apply to main
documents after the acceptance of the patch file.

In my thinking, we should also provide the option to user to edit the
document online if users have good knowledge of docbook and XML tags.
This way user can easily improve content of old document and add more
different ideas to do the thing.

Mock Ups

User Interface:

<https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B9xky34lGjmLWlEzOHhkV0VncUk/view>

Admin Interface:

<https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B9xky34lGjmLYVhuUW1VSW1NMEU/view>

Online doc conversion using backend script:

<https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B9xky34lGjmLYlZpZWhLY2ZSdHc/view>

Backend for patch or pull request accept:

<https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B9xky34lGjmLUl9uZnBLVFFVTEk/view>

Deliverables:

List of documents in the form of a user-friendly interface as well as
standard with well linked with docbook features.

User:-

Normal user profile.

Admin interface.

Normal User Profile:-

Search Show Edit Write New Document ( or upload document then online
Convert the document into docbook(only for html and LaTeX)) Admin
interface:-

Search Edit Delete Approve Changes Merge patch or Pull request Add new
Document Delete or Block user User log

Development schedule:

Community Bonding Period:

Interact with the developers on IRC / mailing list regarding the
integration of this application with BRL-CAD wiki in the form of
Mediawiki extension or Wordpress Plugin.

Discussion about HTML, txt and other format documents Discussion about
documents standards Discussion about LaTeX Documents convert HTML docs
into docbook convert tr docs into docbook convert txt docs into docbook
convert tex docs into docbook WEEK 1:-

Work on user interface and merge all converted document with web site.

WEEK 2:-

Work on search option for document search and editing options for user.

WEEK 3:-

Work on editing option for user and make shell script with which we make
patch file or pull request of changes.

WEEK 4:-

Make shell script to convert the html document. Make shell script to
convert the LaTeX document. WEEK 5:-

Work on online conversion for user. If user wants to contribute any new
documents to BRL-CAD and if the document is more useful for community,
then in this case we provide online conversion of document and make the
patch file or pull request for review.

WEEK 6:-

Provide feature to authenticate the new uploaded document is right in
format or not after conversion.

WEEK 7:-

Work on admin interface part. Make interface for admin to show all
patches or pull request notification which are done by the users.

WEEK 8:-

Provide online editing for admin, search, delete.

WEEK 9:-

Provide the facility to add new documents.(online interface for write
new documents)

WEEK 10:-

Provide the online interface to show the all differences between main
docs and edited docs.

WEEK 11:-

Provide the facility to merge the patch file or pull request with
original documents with help shell script.

WEEK 12:-

Write the documentation about project. Also provide coding standard to
code. And make all necessary changes which are needed before final
submission.

Time availability:

I will be available for about 40 hours/week however this is not rigid
and can be compromised according to the requirement of the project.

Future Prospects:

Synchronization of documents between WordPress and MediaWiki websites.
Integrate these docs with WordPress site. Create the plugin for
WordPress to provide the same features of MediaWiki extension to
WordPress site as well. Why BRL-CAD?

Because when I started my journey in Open Source, I was recommended to
work for BRL-CAD by my college guide. I have learned many a thing from
Open Source and I stand by “ In Open Source, Learning is
Indirect-Earning”. I love to share my knowledge with community as well
as newcomers. My relationship with BRL-CAD is quite long since last year
I wanted to participate in GSoC for Benchmark Performance Database but
owing to lack of confidence and not upto the mark communication skills I
restrained myself from participating. Meanwhile I kept working parallely
with the ongoing project in Django and ported it into a MediaWiki
extension. After that my teachers forced to me to communicate with this
community and also told me to share your knowledge with community. After
I mailed Sean and showed my work on Benchmark project. He appreciated me
and then my journey to contribute to community began and my confidence
increased gradually. So now I want to use my experience and contribute
in BRL-CAD and see my name in the list of contributors.

Why me?

Because I love the concept of Open Source. From about a year I am
talking with community and submitting some patches on different works. I
know my project very well and also understand the requirements of
community. I have appreciable knowledge and experience in PHP, MediaWiki
and WordPress. So I think I am well equipped person to handle this
project and develop a great product for community.

My Contributions:

1.  Dynamic About us page using docbook:

<https://github.com/sofathitesh/brlcad>

1.  Sent the pull request for BRL-CAD website (WordPress)

<!-- -->

1.  Submited 5 patches on docbook work on sourceforge.