# A Beginner’s Guide to BRL-CAD

## Project description

This project aims at introducing students to the world of BRL-CAD. It is
a beginner’s guide so the main focus is on making the reader familiar
with this software and getting them started. The project is a step by
step tutorial to model a chess set. Since the target audience is high
school students, therefore, this project makes sure the students are
well-fed with the required information and keeping it simple at the same
time.

## Results

Here's the documentation produced under the 2019 Google Season of Docs:

## Summary of the current state of the project

Currently, the project provides complete documentation to model a chess
set. It introduces the new users to the BRL-CAD software and helps them
successfully model a chessboard and the chess pieces: Rook, King, Queen,
Pawn, Bishop, Knight. The next steps are the preparation of the document
in the Docbook/XML format so the PDF and HTML forms can be
auto-generated and keep it up to date with development changes.

## A list of challenges and learning

1.  BRL-CAD requires a lot of practice to master. I modeled a lot of
    shapes to understand the commands so that I can explain them in an
    easier manner.
2.  Modeling BRL-CAD changed the way I look at designs.
3.  The major challenge I faced was when I tried to model the chessboard
    and the first chess piece pawn. Mentors helped me improve and then I
    could model any piece in very less time.
4.  Another challenge I faced was to explain the measurements and
    dimensions in an easier fashion so that the readers don’t leave
    confused.
5.  I learned a lot about keeping your readers in mind while writing the
    doc which is one of the key ingredients for writing anything. I
    learned this by looking at my mentors.