# Project Plan for Gsoc'21

## May 17 - June 6 - Community Bonding

During this period, I am looking forward to interacting more with the
Open Source Community, and to also be an active member on the IRC and
the Mailing Lists. I’ll also do my best to learn more about and explore
the Build process so that enabling the program to work with the
automatic build server in the later weeks becomes an easier task.

## June 7 - June 13 - Week I

For the first week, I’ll start working with the WikiBooks API, and write
a code to get the text part extracted in a clean, easy to work with
format and for optimization of the html files, e.g. removal of all the
redundant html tags so that final sizes of the pages can be made
smaller.

## June 14 - June 20 - Week II

Once the Text part gets done, I’ll be working on how to automatically
get the images from the Wiki to the pages where they belong, and also to
save them offline in an efficient manner.

## June 21 - June 27 - Week III

Next, I plan to work on the API:Styling content from wiki to present the
docs with proper styling to increase user-friendliness, write the code
to link the Stylesheet to all the pages, link all the docs together, and
to go through the wiki to check if any adjustment is required.

## June 28 - July 4 - Week IV

I’ll explore the currently available options such as pdfy and
wkhtmltopdf and try for conversion of the docs from html to pdf, since
this is another widely used, user-friendly format.

## July 5 - July 11 - Week V

Week 5 will be the testing phase to make sure the program works how it’s
supposed to be and to debug the unforeseen problems.

## July 12 - July 18 - Week VI

PHASE 1 EVALUATION

## July 19 - July 25 - Week VII

This will consist of finalising the docs generator program, and make
sure it runs perfectly when executed from the terminal and all the web
pages get saved to current_folder/OpenSCADUserDocs, and all images in
current_folder/OpenSCADUserDocs/imgs and focus on the program’s
optimization.

## July 26 - August 8 - Weeks VIII & IX

The last two weeks I’ll be focusing on the implementation of the program
into the Integration Process for the Automatic Build Servers for
shipping with the OpenSCAD release.

## August 9 - August 15 - Week X

Final Testing and completion of the documentation of the program.

## August 16 - August 23 - Week XI

FINAL EVALUATION