## **OpenSCAD GUI & Text Editorâ€™s Interactivity Enhancements**

-   May 4 - June 1 (Community Bonding Period)

\- Interact with the community and explore the code-base of OpenSCAD to
get a better understanding. - Get comfortable with the Qt-Framework, by
making small mockups and reading the documentation. - Explore the
documentation of Scintilla & QScintilla, to get a better understanding.

-   June 1 - June 7 (Week-1)

\- Create the list of all shortcuts. - Try to bring some uniformity in
the declaration style of shortcuts.

-   June 8 - June 14 (Week-2)

\- Modify the Shortcut Configurator Class, from the current
implementation in my active PR. - Enhance the config file-based approach
for Shortcut Configuration. - Implement the GUI for the shortcut
configurator

-   June 15 - June 21 (Week-3)

\- Make GUI functional (Proper update of any shortcuts in the OpenSCAD
application as well as the config-file of shortcuts)

-   June 22 - June 28 (Week-4)

\- Connect the GUI with the existing Preferences GUI - Extensive Testing
of both the Shortcut Configuration through config-file based approach
and GUI approach.

June 29 - July 3 (Phase-1 Evaluation) - Take the feedback from the
community and mentors regarding the GUI Experience. - Implement changes
based on suggestions. - Re-take the feedback and response procedure, and
act accordingly.

-   July 4 - July 12 (Week-6)

\- Go through the current implementation of Changing Number/Values via
keys. - Extend the existing approach to handle the Mouse/Wheel Events
for changing values.

-   July 13 - July 19 (Week-7)

\- Write code for handling various cases like scaling and navigation
through the number.

-   July 20 - July 26 (Week-8)

\- Take into account the user experience, and enhance it by adding
markers around the number/values, when the value is being changed.

-   July 27 - July 31(Phase-2 Evaluation)

\- Take the feedback from the community and mentors regarding the GUI
Experience, as it will be very much important for this feature. -
Implement changes based on suggestions. - Re-take the feedback and
response procedure, and act accordingly.

-   Aug 1 - Aug 9 (Week-10)

\- Understand how error reporting is being done to the console
currently. - Find an effective approach to catch all types of errors and
warnings from the parser. - Use MouseEvents and appropriate public
methods to make Error/ Warning messages clickable, and handle the signal
emission. - Write down the code for proper slots, to handle the Jump to
Line in Scintilla Based Editor

-   Aug 10 - Aug 16 (Week-11)

\- Extensive Testing for the jump to error line inside the editor. -
Create a GUI for Error/Warnings Log.

-   Aug 17 - Aug 23 (Week-12)

\- Make GUI Functional - Add more features to GUI like filters based on
Error Types. - Extend Jump to Error/Warning Line in the Editor feature
to this widget.

-   Aug 24 - Aug 31 (Week-13)\[Final Evaluation\]

\- Buffer Week, for any new changes or work.

-   Aug 31 - Sep 7 (Week-14)\[Mentors Submit Final Evaluation\]

\- Continuous discussion with the mentors for any unforeseen changes.