## Personal Information


**Name:** Zhao Anqing

**E-mail:** zaqcloud@hotmail.com

**IRC Username:** Zhao_Anqing

## Project Title


Mesh Library Cleanup

## Synopsis


BRL-CAD has an extensive n-manifold (NMG) polygonal mesh library
presently embedded within LIBRT. N-manifold can provide an arbitrary
boundary representation structure. This part in BRL-CAD runs good but
not perfect, for it is far from, as is expected, stable, rubost and
easy-read. Sometimes it causes some awkward performance problem and some
algorithm based on current NMG is inefficient. The purpose of this
project is to clean, validate and verify relevant source code about NMG,
and then add the missing Euler Operation to it.

## Concepts


Some important concepts should be clarified before starting this
project.

### Manifold


Manifold representation is commonly used in many commercial boundary
based solid modeling systems. Kinds of data structures are useful to
describe manifold solid. In early years, wing-edge data structure is
widely accepted by researchers and companies. With the development of
related theories, the half-edge data structure appeared. Splitting an
edge into two half-edge makes it more flexible than wing-edge,
especially when iterating elements.

<!-- -->


As a general solid representation, half-edge data structure is enough.
The lower operations named Euler Operation can make sure the
completeness and validity of the solid, and the higher operations such
as sweeping, fillet and others enhance the usability. But in a CAD
system, we will give a proper representation for other situation which
can appear as the result of the standard and the regularized Bool
Operation. For instance, several volumes or faces are only connected by
a single vertex.

### Non-manifold


To support the structure mentioned above, the core concept of this
project, non-manifold is put forward. Unlike manifold, Non-manifold is a
geometric modeling term referring to topological situations which are
not restricted to be two-manifold. It can define not only volume but
also surface, curve and point in a single uniform representation.

<!-- -->


Compared with half-edge data structure, Weiler (the author of the
paper\[1\]) proposes a new representation method, Radial Edge data
structure, which extends half element from only edge to vertex, loop and
face. Such change is worthy, though it makes the data structure more
complex. The boundary elements may range from a surface(2D), an
edge(1D), and a vertex(0D).

## Detailed description

### The current status of NMG


Now, this part of NMG is mainly located in raytrace.h and nmg.h where it
is mixed with other irrelevant structs, macros and functions. It seems
that these codes are moved to here and stacked together temporarily. The
organization is not ideal for other developers to read, use and
maintain.

#### Codes in nmg.h


Core NMG structure and relevant macros are defined in this file.
Including:

-   **NMG elements (7):** The basic parts of Radial Edge Data Structure,
    containing model, region, shell, face, loop, edge and vertex.
-   **NMG using elements (4):** The using parts of Radial Edge Data
    Structure, containing faceuse, loopuse, edgeuse and vertexuse.
-   **Geometry structure:** Bounding box information and kinds of
    geometric description for locating and shaping NMG elements.
-   **Allocation and Release macros:** Memory management for NMG
    elements.
-   **Some test cases**.

#### Codes in raytrace.h


The routines about NMG here are mainly operations or functions acting on
basic NMG structure. Including:

-   **Creation:** Create a new NMG element without geometry information.
-   **Removal:** Remove specific element from an existing NMG element.
-   **Assignment:** Assign geometry information to the specific
    topology.
-   **Modification:** Modify the specific topology.
-   **Print:** Give some information about the specific NMG element in
    form of string.
-   **Classification:** Compute the relationship between two NMG
    elements, such as point and face, point and solid, and so on.
-   **Intersection:** Compute the intersection result between two NMG
    elements, such as getting a point from two edges or a line from two
    faces.
-   **Count:** Count the specific element in a NMG element.
-   **Other Functions**.

### Remove redundant code


For some reason, the NMG primitive is originally designed and
implemented for a stand-alone NMG CAD. But the situation changed. Some
levels of current NMG become redundant, since they are able to be
replaced by some parts in database structure now. Including:

:\* **model**: represents the whole geometry, which is similar to the
content of BRL-CAD \*.g file.

:\* **nmgregion**: sub-level structure beneath *model*, which is similar
to the BRL-CAD region struct.

:\* **Maybe others**.


I will remove them as well as relevant macros and functions to simplify
the problem. In the process, I should make sure there is no side-effect
or new trouble introduced.

### Extract NMG to be a stand-alone library


The concept of manifold is critical to many parts of geometry and
mathematical physics because it allows more complicated structures to be
described and understood in a more understandable way. So it can and
should be combined into a function-independent library. I will check
each line of the code in LIBRT, then move the NMG parts into a new
stand-alone library named LIBNMG.

<!-- -->


Besides, just like what has been done in LIBBU, it will be more
reasonable to divide the whole content into several header and code
files, because accurate division can make code organization more clear.

### Add comments


Complement some proper comments for each header file in the new-built
LIBNMG library. I will obey following rules when writing comments.

-   **Header file:** Entirely functional description.
-   **Struct:** Complete description for whole struct and each member.
-   **Macro:** Complete description for its function and purpose.
-   **Function:** Complete description for input parameters, output
    parameters and main algorithm theories.

### Unit test


According to the experience from other developers in community, it is
absolute that lots of bugs are hidden in LIBNMG. So it is necessary to
write a systematic set of test case. With more bugs discovered and
fixed, the new-built library will be more readable and stable.

<!-- -->


There is some similar work done in src/libbu/tests. Finishing the test
cases by consulting these samples will help me avoid many unnecessary
mistakes. And what's more important, it must be assured that they can
operate normally in CMake which BRL-CAD use to build system.

### Add Euler Operation


Euler operators are useful to manipulate manifold boundary graph based
topology representations. It provides a flexible base for higher level
operators while insulating them from the details and complexities of the
data structures utilized. Euler operation is useful but is missed in
current BRL-CAD. After the successful migration and reorganization of
LIBNMG, adding Euler operation for BRL-CAD is necessary.

<!-- -->


I will reliably add Euler Operation to the system and test them. I have
experience in writing Euler Operation for an implement of manifold data
structure before, so it will not baffle me. All types of Euler Operation
will be included.

#### Construction Operators

:\***MVSF( v, f ):** Create a new topology structure for manifold.

:\***MEV( v1, v2, e ):** Create a new vertex **v2** and connect it with
an existing one **v1** by edge **e**.

:\***MEF( v1, v2, f1, f2, e ):** Connect two exist vertices, **v1** and
**v2**, on face **f1**, then create a new face **f2** and a new edge
**e**.

:\***MEKR( v1, v2, e ):** Create a new edge **e** to connect two
existing vertices, **v1** and **v2**, then remove an inner loop from the
face.

:\***MFKRH( f1, f2 ):** Remove an inner loop on face **f1**, then create
a new face **f2** as well as remove a hole from model.

#### Destruction Operators

:\***KVSF():** Remove an existing topology structure which contains only
one vertex.

:\***KEV( e, v ):** Remove an existing edge **e** and an endpoint **v**
of it.

:\***KEF( e ) :** Remove an existing edge **e** and its adjacent face.

:\***KEMR( e ):** Remove an existing edge **e**, then create a inner
loop of its adjacent face.

:\***KFMRH( f1, f2 ):** Remove an existing face **f2** which is adjacent
to face **f1**, then create an inner loop.

#### Auxiliary Operators

:\***SEMV( e1, v, e2 ):** Split edge **e1** into two segments to create
a new vertex **v1** and a new edge **e2**.

:\***JEKV( e1, e2 ):** merge two adjacent edges, **e1** and **e2**, then
remove the common vertex.

### Documentation


I referred to lots of date during my writing of this proposal. In the
last part, for others who might be interested, I will explain how I
approached this project and give some useful linked as well as a change
list.

## Schedule

:\*Preparation Step 1 (1 April - 18 April): Deeply understanding current
logic relationship and program architecture concerning NMG.

:\*Preparation Step 2 (19 April - 18 May): Discuss with
mentors/developers about the solution for removing redundant structs,
moving into a stand-alone library, and so on. Try as much as possible to
test and verify all possibilities.

:\*Week 1 (19 May - 25 May): Estimate completely the influence of
removing abundant structs. Make sure nothing misses attention.

:\*Week 2 (26 May - 1 June): Remove the abundant structs and test
briefly.

:\*Week 3 (2 June - 8 June): Move the NMG parts from LIBRT into a
new-built library, LIBNMG.

:\*Week 4 - 5 (9 June - 22 June): Write test case, and make sure
everything goes well just like before and to fix bugs found.

:\*Week 6 (23 June - 29 June): Prepare for the mid-evaluation.

:\*Week 7 - 9 (30 June - 20 July): Add Euler Operation.

:\*Week 10 (21 July - 27 July): Complement the comments for the new
library.

:\*Week 11 (28 July - 3 August): Writing relevant documents.

:\*Week 12 - 13 (4 August - 17 August): Prepare for final-evaluation.

## Brief background


I am a graduate student in State Key Lab of CAD & CG, School of Computer
Science, Zhejiang University, China. I have 3 years' work experience in
programming a CAD module for an Optical Critical Dimension system in a
conductor measurement company using Open Cascade. Now, my main research
direction is something about hexahedral mesh.

## Why BRL-CAD


There is no doubt that an amount of commercial CAD software is
outstanding and amazing, but their high price of each copy decides that
not everyone could get such a CAD tool to try and improve their
unconstrained idea. We need open source software to make people free,
free, and free more. I like this open source CAD system and community. I
believe it is worthy to contribute efforts for BRL-CAD. At the meantime,
I can learn rich and irreplaceable experience in connection with CAD
from this project and other developers.

## Why me


I'm a graduate student of Zhejiang University, which is famous for its
reputation in the field of CAD&CG research. I have good background in
CAD theories and programming skills. Moreover, this project is mainly
about NMG mesh which is to a large extent related to my research and
work experience. I have written a CAD module for an optical measurement
system, whose user-friendly interface promoted the company's sales. I am
sure it is no problem for me to finish it with high quality in time.

<!-- -->


And, I make sure I can dedicate at least 40 hours per week in this
summer holiday. I understand clearly the importance of adequate
communication with other experienced developers and theory experts,
whose valuable suggestions can enormously save twists and turns.

## References


\[1\] <http://www.scorec.rpi.edu/REPORTS/1986-1.pdf>

\[2\] <http://sourceforge.net/p/brlcad/mailman/message/28536100>