THE BRL-CAD PROJECT

There are many ways to get involved with the BRL-CAD project. Like many
open source projects, we have a community of contributors but it's not
always clear to someone new how one can get involved. So , what is the
BRL-CAD project ? BRL-CAD is a constructive solid geometry (CSG) solid
modeling computer-aided design (CAD) system. It includes an interactive
geometry editor, ray tracing support for graphics rendering and
geometric analysis, computer network distributed frame buffer support,
scripting, image-processing and signal-processing tools. Nowâ€¦ can I
really contribute to the BRL-CAD project ? Anyone can contribute to
BRL-CAD! The project involves a wide range of activities, not just
programming. Although BRL-CAD can be used for a variety of engineering
and graphics applications, the package's primary purpose continues to be
the support of ballistic and electromagnetic analyses. BRL-CAD is
basically a collection of libraries, tools, and utilities that work
together to create, raytrace, and interrogate geometry and manipulate
files and data. In contrast to many other 3D modelling applications,
BRL-CAD uses CSG rather than boundary representation.This means BRL-CAD
can "study physical phenomena such as ballistic penetration and thermal,
radiative, neutron, and other types of transport And..how do I
contribute ? With BRL-CAD being a part of the open source community
since 2004, contributors from all over the world are able to enhance the
features and functions of the package in many different ways. In return,
these contributors have had a unique opportunity to: Join a team of
passionate and talented contributors who share the common values of open
source development. Open source emphasizes free redistribution; openly
available source code; full, open participation; and nondescrimination
against individuals, groups, technologies, or fields of interest. (To
learn more, see <http://opensource.org>.) Drive needed improvements in
the open source software community's support for solid modeling and CAD
software capabilities. Experiment with new and state-of-the-art
algorithms and ideas within the context of a fully open CAD system that
is in production use and has an established user community. Become a
better developer. Whether you're a newbie or a seasoned developer with
decades of experience, you can always work on a BRL-CAD project that is
catered toward improving your abilities. Become part of a legacy.
Participate in a robust and historically significant open source project
that goes all the way back to the days of the DEC PDP-11/70 and
VAX-11/780. Gain practical experience working on a real-world,
large-scale software project