BRL-CAD was selected to participate in the 2013 Google Summer of Code
**[Doc
Camp](http://www.flossmanuals.org/news/2013-doc-camp-call-proposals)**.
A team of contributors got together in California, brainstormed, and
wrote an entire book for BRL-CAD in just a few days. They created a
guide for contributing to BRL-CAD.

![](DocCamp_WorkingHard.jpg "DocCamp_WorkingHard.jpg")

Contrary to and perhaps because of longstanding efforts, people
interested in improving BRL-CAD sometimes find themselves lost in a sea
of information. In all, BRL-CAD has more than a million words of
documentation across hundreds of manual pages, dozens of tutorials and
examples, hundreds of wiki pages, dozens of technical papers, and other
resources. There are literally thousands of features. It's a lot,
created over decades of development.

Over the course of a week in October, members from our community
participated in something fresh. Something different.

![](DocCamp_TopicWall.jpg "DocCamp_TopicWall.jpg")

A team of individuals traveled from around the world to the Google
headquarters in Mountain View, California, to participate in a 2-part
event: an unconference and a book sprint. Teams for GNOME, OpenMRS, and
BRL-CAD arrived on the Google campus and talked at length about
techniques, tools, formats, documenters, and more. By the end of the
week, seven individuals from four different countries, three continents,
and one oceanic island produced a book for BRL-CAD totaling more than
100 pages in length.

As free open source software, one of BRL-CAD's greatest strengths is
that anyone can get involved and directly contribute. You can make it
better. This new book focuses on that aspect and introduces people to
the project while providing detailed information for developers,
writers, artists, and other potential contributors.

![](DocCamp_Relaxing.jpg "DocCamp_Relaxing.jpg")

This new effort kick-starts a campaign to dramatically improve BRL-CAD's
documentation, starting with this new contributor's guide.

Attending the camp provided an exciting opportunity to get a grasp on
new techniques for documenting and sharing information about our
software, hopefully in ways that help us grow our community. BRL-CAD's
team included Sean Morrison, Eric Edwards, Cliff Yapp, Harmanpreet
Singh, Check Nyah, Isaac Kamga, and Scott Nesbitt. Thank you to the
Google Open Source Programs Office for their sponsorship, Allen Gunn of
[Aspiration](http://aspirationtech.org/) for magnificently framing the
event, and Adam Hyde of [FLOSS Manuals](http://www.flossmanuals.org/)
for directing the production.

For more information on this book or how to contribute to BRL-CAD,
please join one of our [mailing lists](mailing_lists "wikilink").

![](DocCamp_Team.png "DocCamp_Team.png")