The need to build a legal framework for the implementation of electronic
[build ecommerce website](http://nilead.com)

The development of electronic commerce in the world has changed the way
commerce. However risk risks transaction process is so require solutions
not only technically but also need a full legal basis. The practical
experience of the world shows to promote e-commerce development, the
role of the State must be clearly shown on two areas: provision of
electronic services and build a legal system complete, consistent and
specific to regulate the relations of e-commerce. If we lack a sound
legal basis for e-commerce operation, and consumers will be confused in
solving problems related to the agency and the State will be very
difficult to have the facility to control the operation of e-commerce.

Moreover, electronic commerce is a new field to create trust for the
participants in relation to the e-commerce is an urgency to do with
which one is to create nuclear to be a level playing field with those
rules are closely united.

In the process [web design](http://rubikin.com) ecommerce of integration
with the world as a member of APEC, Vietnamese actively participate and
support "joint action program" that this block was made on the
implementation of "Paperless Trade" by 2005 for developed countries and
2010 for developing countries for mutual n. Vietnam is also actively
involved in the liberalization roadmap of the e-ASEAN Framework
Agreement and comply with the "Principles of Electronic Commerce
Steering" in which the mass of water has passed. Therefore we have to
meet the demands of the international legal order to socialize and catch
up with other countries in the region and the world.

E-Commerce Law

The legal validity of electronic chwsng

Currently under the provisions of Vietnamese law written forms to be
used as a master of the form y I f in the civil transactions,
commercial, and especially in the economic contract it is a mandatory
elements. EC raises the issue must recognize the legality of electronic
transactions and electronic documents. State must be recognized legally
in the value of the transaction documents through electronic means.
Ordinance EC is being drafted to solve this problem. It must introduce
the concept of electronic documents and has its own regulations for this
kind of writing. No form must be attached to the electronic information
as the text value equivalent texts if they ensure the following factors:

Capacity information, the information can be stored and referenced when
necessary. To ensure authenticity of the information Ensuring the
integrity of information

Source link: [the nho dien thoai](http://memoryzone.com.vn)